---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# NudgeBee Configurations

This document provides a comprehensive reference for the various secrets and environment variables used by the NudgeBee application. These configurations can be set on Helm > nudgebee_secrets section.


**Important Security Note:** This document outlines the *purpose* of the secrets and environment variables. **It does NOT contain the actual secret values.** The values are stored securely using encryption and managed separately.

## Table of Contents

- [License](#license)
- [General Configuration](#general-configuration)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Database](#database)
- [Messaging Queue](#messaging-queue)
- [Large Language Models](#large-language-models)
- [Integrations](#integrations)
- [Cache Configuration](#cache-configuration)
- [Observability](#observability)
- [ML Configuration](#ml-configuration)
- [AWS Auth](#aws-auth)

## License

Configuration related to license. this is required for nudgebee installation on on-prem cluster.

- **`NUDGEBEE_LICENSE`**: NudgeBee license key.

## General Configuration

- **`BASE_URL`**: The base URL for the NudgeBee application, default `http://localhost:3000`
- **`JWT_PUBLIC_KEY`**: Public key for JWT Auth Tokens. This is optional as nudgebee Helm charts include default value
- **`JWT_PRIVATE_KEY`**: Private key for JWT Auth Tokens. This is optional as nudgebee Helm charts include default value
- **`NUDGEBEE_ENCRYPTION_KEY`**: Key to encrypt credentials on DB. This is optional as nudgebee Helm charts include default value
- **`NEXTAUTH_SECRET`**: Encryption key used for encoding cookies. Auto Generated by NudgeBee


## Authentication

These secrets and environment variables are used for user authentication and integrating with identity providers.
Please refer [Authentication Integrations](../../../integrations/Authentication) for more details

### Google
- **`GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`**: The Client ID for the Google OAuth application used for authentication.
- **`GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`**: The Client Secret for the Google OAuth application.

### Auth0
- **`AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`**: The Client ID for the Auth0 application used for authentication.
- **`AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`**: The Client Secret for the Auth0 application.
- **`AUTH0_ISSUER`**: The issuer URL for the Auth0 domain.

### Teleport
- **`TELEPORT_ENABLED`**: Set to `true` to enable this provider.
- **`TELEPORT_ATTRIBUTE_USERNAME`**: Teleport JWT attribute name for username field, defaults to `sub`
- **`TELEPORT_ATTRIBUTE_NAME`**: Teleport attribute/trait name for displayname field, defaults to `sub`
- **`TELEPORT_ATTRIBUTE_GROUPS`**: Teleport attribute/trait name for nudgebee-groups field, defaults to empty. Note that these groups needs to be available on nudgebee
- **`TELEPORT_SSO_ENABLED`**: if enabled, nudgebee wont show signin screen, will try to login directly based on teelport headers

### Azure AD
- **`AZURE_AD_CLIENT_ID`**: The Client ID for the Azure Active Directory (AD) application.
- **`AZURE_AD_CLIENT_SECRET`**: The Client Secret for the Azure AD application.
- **`AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID`**: The Tenant ID for the Azure AD instance.

### Okta
- **`OKTA_CLIENT_ID`**: The Client ID for the Okta application.
- **`OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`**: The Client Secret for the Okta application.
- **`OKTA_ISSUER`**: The issuer URL for the Okta organization.

### Ldap
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_URI`**: ldap URI.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_LOGIN_FILTER`**: Login filter for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_SEARCH_FILTER`**: Search filter for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_SEARCH_DN`**: Search DN for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_BIND_DN`**: Bind DN for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD`**: Bind password for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE_EMAIL`**: Attribute for email.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE_GROUP`**: Attribute for group.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE_NAME`**: Attribute for name.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE_FIRSTNAME`**: Attribute for first name.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_ATTRIBUTE_LASTNAME`**: Attribute for last name.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_GROUP_MAPPING`**: Group mapping for ldap.
- **`NEXTAUTH_LDAP_SEARCH_USER_PATTERN`**: Search user pattern.

### Magic Link
- **`NEXTAUTH_MAGICLINK_CREDS_ENABLED`**: Enable/Disable magic-links based auth (default true)
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_HOST`**: The hostname of the email server used for sending emails (e.g., for magic links).
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_PORT`**: The port number of the email server.
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_USER`**: The username used to authenticate with the email server.
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_PASSWORD`**: The password used to authenticate with the email server.
- **`EMAIL_FROM`**: Email address which will be used to send email to user.

### Dummy Creds
- **`NEXTAUTH_DUMMY_CREDS_ENABLED`**: Enable disable dummy creds which are generated during deployment (default true)

## Database

These secrets and environment variables are used for connecting to postgres database.

- **`APP_DATABASE_URL`**: Url for Postgres Database. If not provided then defaults to `postgresql://postgres:xxx@postgresql:5432/postgres?sslmode=disable`

## Messaging Queue
configs to connect with RabbitMQ

- **`RABBIT_MQ_HOST`**: The host of Rabbit MQ.
- **`RABBIT_MQ_PORT`**: The port of Rabbit MQ.
- **`RABBIT_MQ_USERNAME`**: username for rabbit MQ.
- **`RABBIT_MQ_PASSWORD`**: The password of Rabbit MQ.

## Large Language Models

These secrets and environment variables are used for configuring and interacting with Large Language Models.
Please refer [LLM Integrations](../../../integrations/LLM/) for more details and configs


- **`LLM_PROVIDER`**: LLM provider for the app (bedrock, sagemaker, huggingface, etc)
- Provider specific configs can be found on [LLM Integrations](../../../integrations/LLM/) docs.


## Integrations
These secrets and environment variables are used for integrating with third-party services.
Please refer [Integrations](../../../integrations/Notifications/) for more details

### Slack App

Required for deploying own-app on slack and using that for NudgeBee integration

- **`SLACK_CLIENT_SECRET`**: The Client Secret for the Slack application integration.
- **`SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET`**: The Signing Secret for the Slack application.
- **`SLACK_CLIENT_ID`**: The Client ID for the slack app.

### MS Teams App

Required for integrating with MSteams

- **`MS_TEAMS_CLIENT_ID`**: Client ID for Microsoft teams Auth.
- **`MS_TEAMS_CLIENT_SECRET`**: Client secret for Microsoft teams Auth.

### GChat App

Required for integrating with Chat

- **`GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`**: Google clientId
- **`GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Google Client Secret
  
### Email

Required for sending emails like daily report

- **`EMAIL_SERVER_HOST`**: The hostname of the email server used for sending emails (e.g., for magic links).
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_PORT`**: The port number of the email server.
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_USER`**: The username used to authenticate with the email server.
- **`EMAIL_SERVER_PASSWORD`**: The password used to authenticate with the email server.
- **`EMAIL_FROM`**: Email address which will be used to send email to user.

## Cache Configuration
Optional configuration related to cache. Currently only redis/in-memory cache is supported. if value is not provided then system assumes in-memory cache.

- **`CACHE_PROVIDER`**: Cache provider.
- **`REDIS_SERVER_HOST`**: Redis server host.
- **`REDIS_SERVER_PORT`**: Redis server port.
- **`REDIS_USER_NAME`**: Redis user name.
- **`REDIS_USER_PASSWORD`**: Redis user password.

## Observability
These are optional configurations for NudgeBee for observability

- **`OTEL_EXPORTER`**: Name of the exporter (none, console, otlp), default is none
- **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`**: Endpoint for OTLP.

## ML Configuration
These are optional configurations for nudgebee ML-Server to manage/store models

- **`ML_MODEL_STORE_PROVIDER`**: Provider for model store. Currentlly only s3/file supported. default is file
- **`ML_MODEL_STORE_BUCKET`**: Bucket name where ML model will be stored. if s3 is enabled

## AWS Auth
If App is deployed Outside EKS and want to access AWS specific services, then add following configs for accessing AWS Services

- **`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`**: Aws access key.
- **`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`**: Aws secret access key.
- **`AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`**: Default aws region.

